PRETORIA - The specialised units in the South African Police Services (SAPS) often have their hands full dealing with many situations, ranging from service delivery protests to violent robberies. Members of these units often have to face dangerous and trigger-happy criminals. These conditions are considered tough by many women who opt for administrative tasks within the service. Hence, tactical police divisions tend to be dominated by male officers. However, there now seems to be a growing interest among female officers to start serving in these divisions. eNCA spoke to this group of females who are on the front lines. They were not fazed by the rigorous and gruelling training regimen needed to prepare them for the streets. Nomthinjana Manciya is a qualified teacher who changed course to join the SAPS and is now part of the National Intervention Unit. Manciya said it hasn’t always been easy to fit in. She said, “When I joined this unit it was in 2005, there were very few ladies at the time that were joining this unit. "It was a bit of a problem among the male counterparts because, at that time, they didn’t want the females amongst them. But we had to force.” Ten years since Manciya joined this unit, not much has changed. She’s one of only 22 women in a team of 467 members of the National Intervention Unit, an operational response division that deals with medium to high risk situations. This shortage has moved police management to recruit more women into the Operational Response Services. Manciya continued, “The women are afraid to do physical things, that’s why they run to administrative work. "I ran from the station because I was tired of writing the affidavit. I was tired of sitting down on that desk - I said let me get something that is gonna put a challenge on me.” The increase in service delivery protests has seen the public order policing unit busier than ever. The tactical group is the first group brought in when dealing with protesters. Things can quickly escalate from very serious to high risk in such cases. Operational trainer Happy Beesnaar said, “When they are facing with the real situation, they have to understand that this situation is all over in the media.  And we have to answer that. And (in) answering that, we have to check the constitution. "So, if he can’t make it in training, then why do you take that particular person in the front line.” Captain Emily Bekker, who works in the Public Order Policing unit, recalled how own experience on the front line. She said, “At that stage, you don’t really think of the missiles coming at you. Either than missing them. You just think about how you are going to manage to disperse and ease down this crowd. "Under circumstances like this you don’t even think about being scared.” So far this year, 55 men and women in blue have been killed on the job. And these officers are well aware of the risks involved each time they hit the streets to fight brazen criminals. But, they are not deterred. Manciya said, “I know that I’m capable of doing it. I know that I’ve been trained to  do it. That keeps me going to always go out, to do the same job and attend those robberies.” Watch the video above for the detailed story. eNCA